hello everyone gilt are here with
response to mr. Capcom's video titled
Gundam naked or painted how do you use
Gundam markers for me to answer the
first question I prefer my gundam model
kits painted i haven't given any of my
model kits full paint jobs yet simply
because I I started in the model kit
hobby just a few months ago and
basically in late fall early winter and
at this point where i lived in canada
it's too cold to spray paint or use air
rushes outside I don't have a vacuum
boot or a spray booth so I can you know
do some spray painting inside and I
would prefer not to do fully sort of
hand brushed model kids I want to give
them a sort of a spray paint or more uh
I guess a spray paint job to them so I'm
going to wait until late spring or early
summer before I start spray painting but
I do prefer fully painted model kits and
I didn't arrive at that conclusion
immediately when i first started to get
into model kits i I thought okay well
become stickers and the plastic parts
are pre colored and they look fine so
maybe maybe I'll stick with that and you
know you enhance it with some panel
lining and I started doing that and I
felt there's just something missing and
I moved on to the next level which was
incorporating the use of Gundam markers
and I bought a set of the basic Gundam
colors for Gundam markers and I ended up
just using a mainly as touch-up markers
like I didn't really paint parts i just
touched up nut marks and that still
wasn't enough for me and i basically in
december i realized if I really want to
get the the sort of resulting visuals of
a finished model kit that i have in my
head I'm going to have to use a full
paint job there's just no other way
because just touching it up or doing
some minor painting and application of
stickers just won't be enough for me I
will want to give them full paint jobs
and my basic plan is to start off with
cleans parts that may be lightly sanded
or or actually it's probably better just
to clean the parts up and then use a
base coat of prime
and then after that then apply my paint
and then after the paint's have been
cured and dried properly i also want to
apply some top coat now one thing I've
noticed that isn't really mentioned at
all in the model kit hobby forms that
I'm a part of is that there's nobody
really about mentioning concerns with
the long-term effects of plastic parts
under sunlight especially white plastic
parts because they can they can actually
yellow and discolor under sunlight not
many people mention that in the hobbies
or model kit areas however I've come
across more concerned about this in the
Transformers and other action figure
collecting communities out there because
for example if some people have had
transformers with white plastic pieces
that have discolored under sunlight over
time and I think the same thing could
probably happen with the abs plastics
and the polystyrene plastics that are
used in model kits commonly and so I do
plan on using top coat but but also I
want to look for top coats that provide
UV protection I think mr. super clear
has a variation where it's like has UV
protection it so I might use mr. super
clear if I can find it or other
variations additionally I do plan on
trying out krylon fusion paints because
it's I hear that it's supposed to be a
formula that bonds with plastic well
it's made to bond with plastic so maybe
I could skip the primer stage or if not
doesn't matter but I'm interested in
that and also it's formulated to be an
outdoor paint it's supposed to be put on
like lawn furniture for example so I
think it's a kind of paint that can
withstand a constant UV exposure so if i
use chronolog fusion paint for example i
think i can avoid using a UV treated
topcoat if I just use a standard topcoat
to reach the desired finish I want which
is usually going to be a map or a flat
finish I think I could just use a
standard top coat now as far as Gundam
markers and know how do I use them like
I said earlier I just basically use them
to touch up nub marks and I actually it
to be honest I haven't used
done the markers in months now I just
don't find the use for them because you
know since I'm planning to paint the
model kits there's no use for me just to
simply paint a part or touch up a part
if it's going to be covered by paint
later on so that's my answer to this
question thank you to mr. Capcom for
asking it I hope you guys have your own
thoughts on this as well as some of you
more experienced modelers out there
please share your experience with using
Gundam markers and your preference for
paint versus naked model kits and
definitely go to mr. Capcom's video
comment in response or you know as usual
if you can and you have the capability
record a video response and respond to
this video thanks for watching